In this lecture we will learn about several pseudo classes CSL gives us that rely on user input.
Let's create three input elements of type text that we can use to see examples of these pseudo classes
in action.
We can use selectors that rely on whether an input element is enabled or disabled to control whether
an input field is enabled are disabled.
We can use the disabled attribute if an input field contains the disabled attribute then it is disabled
if an input field does not contain the disabled attribute then it is enabled if we want to apply a style
to all enabled input elements we can use the enabled selector to see this selector in action.
Let's say I add the disabled attribute to our first input field then we will get an opening and closing
style tag inside of which will Gor selector and style code we will use that enabled selector and specify
that any enabled input element should have a background color of blue since we added the disabled attribute
to the first input element only the other two will have the blue background.
Let's go to the web browser and run our code as you can see.
Our second and third input elements have a background color of blue.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
CSSA also gives us the disabled selector which is the exact opposite of the enabled selector.
If we change the selector in our example from enabled to disabled and run our code you will notice that
the first input field has a blue background.
Let's go back to the editor.
We can also use selectors that are based on whether or not the input field is optional or required.
The required selector allows us to apply style to a required input element if the element has the required
attribute then the specified style will be applied to it.
To illustrate an example of this let's continue using the same example elements we have been working
with but change the attribute in the first input element from disabled to required.
Then we will go to our style code and we'll change the selector from disabled to required when we run
the code.
You will notice that the background of the first input element turns blue since it has the required
attribute.
Then we will go back to the editor the optional selector is the opposite of the required selector.
If we change the selector in our example from acquired to optional and then run our code we will see
the second and third input fields have a background color of blue.
Let's jump back to the editor CSSA also gives us selectors that we can use to stylize input elements
based on whether or not the input within an input field is valid input.
Say for example we allow our input fields to accept email input by giving them a type attribute with
a value of email.
Let's change the value of the type attribute to email rather than text.
Let's change our style code to use the invalid selector and apply a red border of four pixels around
the input field.
If the value input by the user is invalid.
Next let's run this code in the browser and add some invalid input into one of our input fields.
Since we specified that our input field is of type email typing anything except for a valid email address
will apply the invalid style to it.
Let's go back to the editor the opposite of the invalid selector is the valid selector.
If we change the selector in our example code to valid then the style will only be applied when we type
in a valid email.
One clarification here the email doesn't have to be an actual email it just has to be in the format
of text followed by the at sign followed by more text and then a dot com at the end.
Let's jump back to the editor the focus selector applies a style to whichever input field is currently
in focus.
Being an folkish just means that the user's cursor is currently inside the input field.
In other words the input field is the latest element that the user clicked into.
We will change our selector focus and run this code in the browser when we click into an input element.
You will notice that our red border style is applied to it.
Let's jump back to the editor and look at another example.
The read only and read write selectors allow us to change the style of the input fields that I've read
only access or read write access.
We can use the read only attribute to make our input element read only.
We also specify a value for element using the value attribute then if we change our selected or read
only and run our code we will see our style apply to a read only input field.
Let's go back to the editor the read write selector is the opposite of the read only selector.
It applies a specified style to input fields that the user can type into if we change our selected or
read write and run our code in the browser.
You will see the style applied to our second and third input fields that do not contain the read only
attribute in the next lecture.
We will learn about the pseudo classes CSSA gives us that function based on an element type.